Frame Scheduling (#735)
threlte/threlte: apps/docs/src/content/learn/basics/scheduling-tasks.mdx

---
title: Scheduling Tasks
category: Basics
order: -750
---

> In 3D apps and games, a lot of work is done in functions that run on every frame
> – from rotating an object continously around an axis to reacting to user input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 3D apps and games, a lot of work is done in functions that run on every frame.
```
Recommend removing this example since a similar one is given at the end of this paragraph.

> Web-based apps rely on the browsers `requestAnimationFrame` that runs a callback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web-based apps rely on the browser's `requestAnimationFrame` that runs a callback
```

function when a new frame is rendered. When encapsulating logic into smaller

> parts (i.e. *components*), we run into the issue that we need to run multiple
> callbacks on every frame that may be dependent on each other. For instance, we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parts (i.e. *components*), we often need to run multiple
callbacks that may be dependent on each other. For instance, we
```

may want to update the position of an object based on user input and then render
the scene with the updated position.

In Threlte, these functions are called **tasks** and may or may not follow a
specific order. If an order is specified, the respective task has a
**dependency** to other tasks and vice versa. Tasks are grouped into **stages**
and follow the same logic: They may or may not have dependencies to other stages
to be executed in a specific order. A Threlte app is managed by a single
**scheduler**.

In this section, we will learn how to use the easy-to-use tools
Threlte provides to create and orchestrate stages and tasks.

<img class="w-full max-md:hidden" src="/images/docs/learn/frame-handling.svg" />
<img class="w-auto h-[85vh] mx-auto md:hidden" src="/images/docs/learn/frame-handling_portrait.svg" />

<small>
	Figure: A schedule of multiple stages with tasks
</small>

## Scheduler

Every Threlte app has a single scheduler. It is accessible via [`useThrelte()`](/docs/reference/core/use-threlte):

```ts
const { scheduler } = useThrelte()
```

<Tip type="info">

>   Most of the times you won't need to interact with the scheduler directly. It is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Usually you won't need to interact with the scheduler directly. It is
```

  started or not.
- `task`: The task itself. You can use it to indicate a dependency to this task
  on another task.

### Creating a Keyed Task

You can *key* a task by passing it as the first argument to `useTask`. This
makes referencing this task easier across your app. The key can be any `string`
or `symbol` value that is unique across all tasks in the stage it is added to.

```ts
const { start, stop, started, task: someTask } = useTask('some-task', (delta) => {
  // This function will be executed on every frame
})
```

### Creating a Task in a Stage

You can also pass a stage that the task should be added to as an option to
`useTask`:

```ts
useTask((delta) => {
  // This function will be executed on every frame as a
  // task in the stage `afterRenderStage`.
}, { stage: afterRenderStage })
```

### Task Dependencies

A common use case for tasks is to run code after another task has been executed. Imagine
a game where an object is transformed by user input in one task and a camera follows that
object in another task. The camera task should be executed after the object has been
transformed.

To control the order in which tasks are executed in a stage, you can pass a

> `before` and `after` option to `useTask` The tasks passed to these options are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`before` and `after` option to `useTask`. The tasks passed to these options are
```
